doc-editor-keyboard-shortcuts.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Editor Keyboard Shortcuts
---

The editor used in ZeroBrane Studio is based on the [Scintilla editing component](http://www.scintilla.org/) and provides access to most of its functionality.
These commands can be modified using [editor key mapping](doc-general-preferences#editor-key-mapping) settings.

**Text editing** commands with no menu equivalents:

- `Tab`: Indent line or current selection
- `Shift-Tab`: Unindent line or current selection
- `Ctrl-L`/`Ctrl-Y`: Cut current line
- `Ctrl-D`: Duplicate selection or current line
- `Ctrl-Shift-T`: Copy current line
- `Ctrl-Shift-U`: Uppercase current selection
- `Ctrl-Backspace`: Delete to the beginning of the current word
- `Ctrl-Delete`: Delete to the end of the current word
- `Ctrl-Shift-Backspace`: Delete to the beginning of the line
- `Ctrl-Shift-Delete`: Delete to the end of the line

**Navigation and selection** commands:

- `Alt-Shift-cursor`: Block selection
- `Ctrl-[`: Jump to previous paragraph. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-]`: Jump to next paragraph. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-Left`: Jump to previous word. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-Right`: Jump to next word. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-/`: Jump to previous word part. `Shift` extends selection	
- `Ctrl-\`: Jump to next word part. `Shift` extends selection.	
- `Alt-End`: Jump to end of display line (for wrapped lines)
- `Alt-Home`: Jump to beginning of display line (for wrapped lines)
- `Ctrl-Tab`/`Ctrl-PgUp`: Cycle right through editor tabs
- `Ctrl-Shift-Tab`/`Ctrl-PgDn`: Cycle left through editor tabs

**Text size adjustment** commands:

- `Ctrl-Keypad+`: Magnify text size
- `Ctrl-Keypad-`: Reduce text size
- `Ctrl-Keypad/`: Restore text size to normal
- `Ctrl-MouseWheel`: Magnify/Reduce text size

**Note for Mac OSX users**: in all these editor commands `Ctrl` means `Cmd` key, except in `Ctrl-Tab`, `Ctrl-Shift-Tab`, `Ctrl-PgUp`, and `Ctrl-PgDn` commands.

Commit message:

Updated editor shortcuts description to link documentation for menu shortcuts (#597).

doc-editor-keyboard-shortcuts.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Editor Keyboard Shortcuts
---

The editor used in ZeroBrane Studio is based on the [Scintilla editing component](http://www.scintilla.org/) and provides access to most of its functionality.
These commands can be modified using [editor key mapping](doc-general-preferences#editor-key-mapping) settings.

Other shortcuts used in the application can be modified as described in the [key mapping](doc-general-preferences#key-mapping) section.

**Text editing** commands with no menu equivalents:

- `Tab`: Indent line or current selection
- `Shift-Tab`: Unindent line or current selection
- `Ctrl-L`/`Ctrl-Y`: Cut current line
- `Ctrl-D`: Duplicate selection or current line
- `Ctrl-Shift-T`: Copy current line
- `Ctrl-Shift-U`: Uppercase current selection
- `Ctrl-Backspace`: Delete to the beginning of the current word
- `Ctrl-Delete`: Delete to the end of the current word
- `Ctrl-Shift-Backspace`: Delete to the beginning of the line
- `Ctrl-Shift-Delete`: Delete to the end of the line

**Navigation and selection** commands:

- `Alt-Shift-cursor`: Block selection
- `Ctrl-[`: Jump to previous paragraph. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-]`: Jump to next paragraph. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-Left`: Jump to previous word. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-Right`: Jump to next word. `Shift` extends selection
- `Ctrl-/`: Jump to previous word part. `Shift` extends selection	
- `Ctrl-\`: Jump to next word part. `Shift` extends selection.	
- `Alt-End`: Jump to end of display line (for wrapped lines)
- `Alt-Home`: Jump to beginning of display line (for wrapped lines)
- `Ctrl-Tab`/`Ctrl-PgUp`: Cycle right through editor tabs
- `Ctrl-Shift-Tab`/`Ctrl-PgDn`: Cycle left through editor tabs

**Text size adjustment** commands:

- `Ctrl-Keypad+`: Magnify text size
- `Ctrl-Keypad-`: Reduce text size
- `Ctrl-Keypad/`: Restore text size to normal
- `Ctrl-MouseWheel`: Magnify/Reduce text size

**Note for Mac OSX users**: in all these editor commands `Ctrl` means `Cmd` key, except in `Ctrl-Tab`, `Ctrl-Shift-Tab`, `Ctrl-PgUp`, and `Ctrl-PgDn` commands.
