doc-tips-and-tricks.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Tips and Tricks
---

<ul id='toc'>&nbsp;</ul>

## Use arbitrary expressions in watches.

Watches can be used to display not only variables, but also **any expression or function call**;
for example: `1+2`, `collectgarbage('count')`, or `tbl and tbl[1] or nil`.

## Show several values as one watch.

To **show multiple values as one watch**, you can wrap them into a table literal: `{'a','b','c'}` or `{(function_that_returns_several_values()}`.

## Show selected elements from a table in the Watch window.

To **show only some elements from a large table**, you can use an expression that may look like this: `tbl and {x=tbl.x, y=tbl.y} or nil`.

## Go to definition.

(0.39+) To **jump to the definition of a local variable** (also works for loop variables and parameters), you can use `Alt/Opt+Ctrl+Click` or right mouse click and select `Go To Definition`.
You can then **navigate back to the original location** by using `Alt/Opt-Left`.

## Select all instances of a variable.

(0.38+) To **select all instances of a variable** (scope-aware), you can use `Ctrl/Cmd+DblClick` or right mouse click and select `Rename All Instances`.
The menu item will also show how many instances will be selected ([screenshot and details](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/scope-aware-variable-indicators-zerobrane-studio)).

## Quick search.

To **quickly search for selected string** or previously searched word, you can use `Find Next` (`F3`) and `Find Previous` (`Shift-F3`).

## Navigate selected instances of a variable.

When you select all instance of a variable, you can **navigate them forward and backward** using `Find Next` (`F3`) and `Find Previous` (`Shift-F3`).

## Search in the console history.

(0.39+) To **search commands in the console history**, you can start typing the command and then use `TAB`, which will auto-complete the last matching command.
You can see other matches if you continue pressing `TAB`.

## Auto-reload externally modified files.

(0.50+) To **auto-reload externally modified files** set `editor.autoreload` configuration setting to true.
If no conflict is detected, the file content is going to be reloaded and its current markers (breakpoints and others) are going to be restored if possible.

(0.80+) This option is enabled by default.

## Quick jump to the function call from the Stack view.

To **jump to the position in the source code referred to in the Stack window**, double click on a function name in the stack frame.

## Search or replace with regular expressions.

To **search or replace using regular expressions**, you can enable a checkbox `Regular Expression`.
These regular expressions do not accept Lua character classes that start with `%` (like `%s`, `%d`, and others), but accept `.` (as any character), char-sets (`[]` and `[^]`), modifiers `+` and `*`, and characters `^` and `$` to match beginning and end of the string.

## Search and replacement with regular expressions and captures.

(0.39+) When regular expression search is used with search and replace, `\n` refer to first through ninth **pattern captures** marked with brackets `()`.
For example, when searching for `MyVariable([1-9])` and replacing with `MyOtherVariable\1`, `MyVariable1` will be replaced with `MyOtherVariable1`, `MyVariable2` with `MyOtherVariable2`, and so on.

## Pretty printing in the Console window.

All results shown in the `Console` window are pretty printed as one line, with all complex results shown with all their elements.
To print complex elements on multiple lines, you can prepend the expression with `=`, as in `={1,2,3,'a','b','c'}`.

## Limit results shown while pretty printing in the Console window.

To limit the number of levels shown during pretty printing, instead of `val`, use `return require('mobdebug').line(val, {maxlevel = 1})`, and instead of `=val`, use `return require('mobdebug').line(a, {indent = ' ', maxlevel = 1})`.

## Quick jump to the source of the error.

To **jump to the position referred to in the error message** shown in the `Output` window, you can double click on the line showing the error message.
This also works for messages in the stack trace as long as they include the file name.

## Run multiple instances of the IDE.

To run **multiple instances of the IDE**, you can start one instance as you normally do, and then start the second instance using this command: `zbstudio -cfg "singleinstance=false"`.
If you are on OSX, you may need to use `open ZeroBraneStudio.app --args -cfg "singleinstance=false"`.

## Run multiple instances of the IDE to debug two applications at the same time.

To run **multiple instances of the IDE to debug two applications**, you can start one instance as you normally do, and then start the second instance using this command: `zbstudio -cfg "singleinstance=false; debugger.port = 8173"`.
If you are on OSX, you may need to use `open ZeroBraneStudio.app --args -cfg "singleinstance=false; debugger.port = 8173"`.

## Merge and split windows and tabs.

You can **resize** windows by dragging the splitters between them.
To **undock** or **re-dock** the window, doubleclick on the tab background of the notebook in that window (0.60+).
To **move** the window, click and hold the mouse on the window caption area (when the window is undocked); then drag the window to a new location.
To **dock** the window, release the mouse when one side of the main window changes its color to light blue.
If you want to avoid docking, press `Ctrl`/`Cmd` button before releasing the mouse button.
The new configuration will be used until you reset or change it.

## Move windows without docking them.

`Ctrl-Drag`/`Cmd-Drag` will move the window without trying to dock it.

## Project switching.

You can **change the current project** in several ways:

1. Use `Project | Project Directory | Choose...`.
2. Use `File | Recent Projects` (0.60+).
3. Use the context menu in the Project tree (mouse right click) and then `Project Directory` (0.60+).
4. Use `Choose a project directory` icon on the toolbar.
5. Use dropdown next to the `Choose a project directory` icon on the toolbar (0.60+).

## Project tree refresh

When new files are added to or removed from the file system outside of the IDE, these changes may not be reflected in the project tree immediately.
To refresh the project tree you have several options:

1. Collapse/Expand a particular directory, which will refresh its content.
2. (1.10+) Use `Refresh` item in the context menu in the project tree (mouse right click).
3. Install [Refresh Project](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/refreshproject.lua) plugin (Windows only).

## Show Output and Console windows side by side.

The default configuration shows `Output` and `Console` windows as tabs in the same window.
If you want to see them side by side, you can **drag one of the tabs to a different location** inside the same window and dock it there.

## Clear the content of the Output window.

The content of the `Output` window can be cleared by accessing context menu (right click of the mouse) and selecting `Clear Output Window`.

## Zooming all editor tabs.

(0.41+) Use `Shift+Zoom` (`Shift+Ctrl+Scroll`) to zoom all editors.
Using `Ctrl+Scroll` still zooms only the current editor tab.

## Show numeric values in Watch/Console in hexadecimal format.

To change the format of numeric values, add the following fragment to the [configuration](doc-configuration) file or execute it in the Local Console (in which case it will only be active for the current session):

{% highlight lua %}
debugger.init = [[
  local mdb = require('mobdebug')
  mdb.origline, mdb.line = mdb.line, function(v) return mdb.origline(v, {numformat = "0x%x"}) end
]]
{% endhighlight %}

This will affect all the numbers shown in the Watch, Stack, tooltips, and Remote Console windows.
To switch back either remove the configuration setting or reset `debugger.init` back to an empty value.

## Adding custom API.

To add your own custom API to be recognized in auto-complete and tooltips, you can use the [`api` configuration setting](doc-general-preferences#custom-apis).

## Document map (plugin).

To enable document map that provides a bird's-eye view of the currently edited document, you can use [document map plugin](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/documentmap.lua).

## Clone view (plugin).

To be able to open and edit the same file in multiple windows, you can use [clone view plugin](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/clone-editor-view-plugin-for-zerobrane-studio).

## Real-time watches (plugin).

To be able to display values from your program while it is running, you can use [real-time watches view plugin](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/real-time-watches-plugin-zerobrane-studio).

Commit message:

Added project settings plugin to the tips and tricks page.

doc-tips-and-tricks.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Tips and Tricks
---

<ul id='toc'>&nbsp;</ul>

## Use arbitrary expressions in watches.

Watches can be used to display not only variables, but also **any expression or function call**;
for example: `1+2`, `collectgarbage('count')`, or `tbl and tbl[1] or nil`.

## Show several values as one watch.

To **show multiple values as one watch**, you can wrap them into a table literal: `{'a','b','c'}` or `{(function_that_returns_several_values()}`.

## Show selected elements from a table in the Watch window.

To **show only some elements from a large table**, you can use an expression that may look like this: `tbl and {x=tbl.x, y=tbl.y} or nil`.

## Go to definition.

(0.39+) To **jump to the definition of a local variable** (also works for loop variables and parameters), you can use `Alt/Opt+Ctrl+Click` or right mouse click and select `Go To Definition`.
You can then **navigate back to the original location** by using `Alt/Opt-Left`.

## Select all instances of a variable.

(0.38+) To **select all instances of a variable** (scope-aware), you can use `Ctrl/Cmd+DblClick` or right mouse click and select `Rename All Instances`.
The menu item will also show how many instances will be selected ([screenshot and details](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/scope-aware-variable-indicators-zerobrane-studio)).

## Quick search.

To **quickly search for selected string** or previously searched word, you can use `Find Next` (`F3`) and `Find Previous` (`Shift-F3`).

## Navigate selected instances of a variable.

When you select all instance of a variable, you can **navigate them forward and backward** using `Find Next` (`F3`) and `Find Previous` (`Shift-F3`).

## Search in the console history.

(0.39+) To **search commands in the console history**, you can start typing the command and then use `TAB`, which will auto-complete the last matching command.
You can see other matches if you continue pressing `TAB`.

## Auto-reload externally modified files.

(0.50+) To **auto-reload externally modified files** set `editor.autoreload` configuration setting to true.
If no conflict is detected, the file content is going to be reloaded and its current markers (breakpoints and others) are going to be restored if possible.

(0.80+) This option is enabled by default.

## Quick jump to the function call from the Stack view.

To **jump to the position in the source code referred to in the Stack window**, double click on a function name in the stack frame.

## Search or replace with regular expressions.

To **search or replace using regular expressions**, you can enable a checkbox `Regular Expression`.
These regular expressions do not accept Lua character classes that start with `%` (like `%s`, `%d`, and others), but accept `.` (as any character), char-sets (`[]` and `[^]`), modifiers `+` and `*`, and characters `^` and `$` to match beginning and end of the string.

## Search and replacement with regular expressions and captures.

(0.39+) When regular expression search is used with search and replace, `\n` refer to first through ninth **pattern captures** marked with brackets `()`.
For example, when searching for `MyVariable([1-9])` and replacing with `MyOtherVariable\1`, `MyVariable1` will be replaced with `MyOtherVariable1`, `MyVariable2` with `MyOtherVariable2`, and so on.

## Pretty printing in the Console window.

All results shown in the `Console` window are pretty printed as one line, with all complex results shown with all their elements.
To print complex elements on multiple lines, you can prepend the expression with `=`, as in `={1,2,3,'a','b','c'}`.

## Limit results shown while pretty printing in the Console window.

To limit the number of levels shown during pretty printing, instead of `val`, use `return require('mobdebug').line(val, {maxlevel = 1})`, and instead of `=val`, use `return require('mobdebug').line(a, {indent = ' ', maxlevel = 1})`.

## Quick jump to the source of the error.

To **jump to the position referred to in the error message** shown in the `Output` window, you can double click on the line showing the error message.
This also works for messages in the stack trace as long as they include the file name.

## Run multiple instances of the IDE.

To run **multiple instances of the IDE**, you can start one instance as you normally do, and then start the second instance using this command: `zbstudio -cfg "singleinstance=false"`.
If you are on OSX, you may need to use `open ZeroBraneStudio.app --args -cfg "singleinstance=false"`.

## Run multiple instances of the IDE to debug two applications at the same time.

To run **multiple instances of the IDE to debug two applications**, you can start one instance as you normally do, and then start the second instance using this command: `zbstudio -cfg "singleinstance=false; debugger.port = 8173"`.
If you are on OSX, you may need to use `open ZeroBraneStudio.app --args -cfg "singleinstance=false; debugger.port = 8173"`.

## Merge and split windows and tabs.

You can **resize** windows by dragging the splitters between them.
To **undock** or **re-dock** the window, doubleclick on the tab background of the notebook in that window (0.60+).
To **move** the window, click and hold the mouse on the window caption area (when the window is undocked); then drag the window to a new location.
To **dock** the window, release the mouse when one side of the main window changes its color to light blue.
If you want to avoid docking, press `Ctrl`/`Cmd` button before releasing the mouse button.
The new configuration will be used until you reset or change it.

## Move windows without docking them.

`Ctrl-Drag`/`Cmd-Drag` will move the window without trying to dock it.

## Project switching.

You can **change the current project** in several ways:

1. Use `Project | Project Directory | Choose...`.
2. Use `File | Recent Projects` (0.60+).
3. Use the context menu in the Project tree (mouse right click) and then `Project Directory` (0.60+).
4. Use `Choose a project directory` icon on the toolbar.
5. Use dropdown next to the `Choose a project directory` icon on the toolbar (0.60+).

## Project tree refresh

When new files are added to or removed from the file system outside of the IDE, these changes may not be reflected in the project tree immediately.
To refresh the project tree you have several options:

1. Collapse/Expand a particular directory, which will refresh its content.
2. (1.10+) Use `Refresh` item in the context menu in the project tree (mouse right click).
3. Install [Refresh Project](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/refreshproject.lua) plugin (Windows only).

## Show Output and Console windows side by side.

The default configuration shows `Output` and `Console` windows as tabs in the same window.
If you want to see them side by side, you can **drag one of the tabs to a different location** inside the same window and dock it there.

## Clear the content of the Output window.

The content of the `Output` window can be cleared by accessing context menu (right click of the mouse) and selecting `Clear Output Window`.

## Zooming all editor tabs.

(0.41+) Use `Shift+Zoom` (`Shift+Ctrl+Scroll`) to zoom all editors.
Using `Ctrl+Scroll` still zooms only the current editor tab.

## Show numeric values in Watch/Console in hexadecimal format.

To change the format of numeric values, add the following fragment to the [configuration](doc-configuration) file or execute it in the Local Console (in which case it will only be active for the current session):

{% highlight lua %}
debugger.init = [[
  local mdb = require('mobdebug')
  mdb.origline, mdb.line = mdb.line, function(v) return mdb.origline(v, {numformat = "0x%x"}) end
]]
{% endhighlight %}

This will affect all the numbers shown in the Watch, Stack, tooltips, and Remote Console windows.
To switch back either remove the configuration setting or reset `debugger.init` back to an empty value.

## Adding custom API.

To add your own custom API to be recognized in auto-complete and tooltips, you can use the [`api` configuration setting](doc-general-preferences#custom-apis).

## Document map (plugin).

To enable document map that provides a bird's-eye view of the currently edited document, you can use [document map plugin](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/documentmap.lua).

## Clone view (plugin).

To open and edit the same file in multiple windows, you can use [clone view plugin](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/clone-editor-view-plugin-for-zerobrane-studio).

## Real-time watches (plugin).

To display values from your program while it is running, you can use [real-time watches view plugin](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/real-time-watches-plugin-zerobrane-studio).

## Project settings (plugin).

To set project-specific settings, you can use [project settings plugin](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/projectsettings.lua).
