doc-api-auto-complete.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Adding API and auto-complete description
---

ZeroBrane Studio supports custom API definitions that are used in providing information for auto-complete and tooltip functions.

By providing a description for `io.open`, users may not only see `open` suggested after typing `io.`, but also see a description for this function after they type `io.open(` or when they request a tooltip for `io.open(...)`.

## API definition format

API definitions are stored in the form of Lua files that return a table of the following structure:

{% highlight lua %}
{
  foo = {
    type = "lib",
    description = "this does something",

    -- function/methods:
    args = "(blah,blubb)",
    returns = "(foo)",

    -- children in the class hierarchy
    childs = { -- recursive
      bar = {
        type = "function",
        description = "this does something",
        valuetype = "mytype",
      }
    }
  },

  baz = {
    type = "value",
    --...
  },
}
{% endhighlight %}

This structure defines a value `baz`, a library `foo`, and a function in that library `foo.bar()` that returns a value with type `mytype`.

Possible type values are:

- `function`: to describe a function that accepts parameters (`args`) and returns values (`returns`), possibly of a specific type (`valuetype`).
- `class` and `lib`: to describe groups of functions, methods, values, and other classes and libraries.
- `keyword`: to describe language keywords, like `do` and `end`.
- `value`: to describe specific values;
- `method`: to describe method calls; methods are described similar to functions and also accept arguments and return values and value types. The only difference is that methods are only suggested after `:` in auto-complete, while functions are suggested after `.` and `:`.

When `valuetype` is specified for a `method` or a `function`, it is used for autocomplete type guessing.
If the value is used in an expression, then the variable this value is assigned to is treated as having the value type;
e.g. if `somefunc` has `valuetype` of `math`, then after `test = somefunc()`, typing `test.` will be treated as `math.` in autcomplete logic.

## How to reference API definitions

API definitions can be referenced by name in interpreter files as part of the `api` table.
For example, `interpreters/luadeb.lua` file references `wxwidgets` and `baselib` API definitions, which can be found in files `api/lua/wxwidgets.lua` and `api/lua/baselib.lua`.

{% highlight lua %}
return {
  name = "Lua",
  description = "Lua interpreter with debugger",
  api = {"wxwidgets","baselib"},
  ...
{% endhighlight %}

Make sure to use exactly the same name when you reference files with API definitions even on case-insensitive systems.
If you name the file `api/lua/BaseLib.lua`, but reference it as `'baselib'`, the link won't work.

## Example

{% highlight lua %}
return {
  -- I/O library
  io = {
    type = "lib",
    description = "The I/O library provides two different styles for file manipulation.",
    childs = {
      stdin = { type = "value" },
      stdout = { type = "value" },
      stderr = { type = "value" },
      open = {
        type = "function",
        description = [[This function opens a file, in the mode specified in the string mode.
It returns a new file handle, or, in case of errors, nil plus an error message.
The mode string can be any of the following:

* "r": read mode (the default);
* "w": write mode;
* "a": append mode;
* "r+": update mode, all previous data is preserved;
* "w+": update mode, all previous data is erased;
* "a+": append update mode, previous data is preserved, writing is only allowed at the end of file.

The mode string can also have a 'b' at the end, which is needed in some systems to open the file in binary mode.]],
        args = "(filename: string [, mode: string])",
        returns = "(file|nil [, string])",
        valuetype = "f", -- indicates that io.open returns value of type `f`
      },
    },
  },

  f = {
    type = "class",
    description = "Pseudoclass for operations on file handles.",
    childs = {
      close = {
        type = "method",
        description = "Closes file.",
        args = "(file: file)",
        returns = "(boolean|nil [, string, number])",
      },
    },
  },
}
{% endhighlight %}

This generates the following description for `io.open`: `(file|nil [, string]) io.open (filename: string [, mode: string])`.

When `io.open` is used in an expression, its return value gets the value of `valuetype` `f` (in this particular case), which allows auto-complete to suggest values, functions, and methods defined for that class:

{% highlight lua %}
local foo = io.open("myfile")
foo:
{% endhighlight %}

After typing `foo:`, the user will get `close` as an option. Since it is described as `method`, rather than `function`, it will not be suggested after typing `foo.`.

Commit message:

Added inheritance documentation for auto-complete descriptions.

doc-api-auto-complete.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Adding API and auto-complete description
---

ZeroBrane Studio supports custom API definitions that are used in providing information for auto-complete and tooltip functions.

By providing a description for `io.open`, users may not only see `open` suggested after typing `io.`, but also see a description for this function after they type `io.open(` or when they request a tooltip for `io.open(...)`.

## API definition format

API definitions are stored in the form of Lua files that return a table of the following structure:

{% highlight lua %}
{
  foo = {
    type = "lib",
    description = "this does something",

    -- function/methods:
    args = "(blah,blubb)",
    returns = "(foo)",

    -- children in the class hierarchy
    childs = { -- recursive
      bar = {
        type = "function",
        description = "this does something",
        valuetype = "mytype",
      }
    }
  },

  baz = {
    type = "value",
    --...
  },
}
{% endhighlight %}

This structure defines a value `baz`, a library `foo`, and a function in that library `foo.bar()` that returns a value with type `mytype`.

Possible type values are:

- `function`: to describe a function that accepts parameters (`args`) and returns values (`returns`), possibly of a specific type (`valuetype`).
- `class` and `lib`: to describe groups of functions, methods, values, and other classes and libraries.
- `keyword`: to describe language keywords, like `do` and `end`.
- `value`: to describe specific values;
- `inherits`: to specify inheritance chain for the current class;
- `method`: to describe method calls; methods are described similar to functions and also accept arguments and return values and value types. The only difference is that methods are only suggested after `:` in auto-complete, while functions are suggested after `.` and `:`.

When `valuetype` is specified for a `method` or a `function`, it is used for auto-complete type guessing.
If the value is used in an expression, then the variable this value is assigned to is treated as having the value type;
e.g. if `somefunc` has `valuetype` of `math`, then after `test = somefunc()`, typing `test.` will be treated as `math.` in auto-complete logic.

When `inherits` is specified for a class, it is used by auto-complete logic to suggest values, functions, and methods from the base class(es) in addition to the methods from the current class.
You may specify several classes (`inherits = 'a b'`) and complex class names (`inherits = 'b2.Shape'`).
The entire inheritance chain will be looked at during the analysis.

## How to reference API definitions

API definitions can be referenced by name in interpreter files as part of the `api` table.
For example, `interpreters/luadeb.lua` file references `wxwidgets` and `baselib` API definitions, which can be found in files `api/lua/wxwidgets.lua` and `api/lua/baselib.lua`.

{% highlight lua %}
return {
  name = "Lua",
  description = "Lua interpreter with debugger",
  api = {"wxwidgets","baselib"},
  ...
{% endhighlight %}

Make sure to use exactly the same name when you reference files with API definitions even on case-insensitive systems.
If you name the file `api/lua/BaseLib.lua`, but reference it as `'baselib'`, the link won't work.

## Example

{% highlight lua %}
return {
  -- I/O library
  io = {
    type = "lib",
    description = "The I/O library provides two different styles for file manipulation.",
    childs = {
      stdin = { type = "value" },
      stdout = { type = "value" },
      stderr = { type = "value" },
      open = {
        type = "function",
        description = [[This function opens a file, in the mode specified in the string mode.
It returns a new file handle, or, in case of errors, nil plus an error message.
The mode string can be any of the following:

* "r": read mode (the default);
* "w": write mode;
* "a": append mode;
* "r+": update mode, all previous data is preserved;
* "w+": update mode, all previous data is erased;
* "a+": append update mode, previous data is preserved, writing is only allowed at the end of file.

The mode string can also have a 'b' at the end, which is needed in some systems to open the file in binary mode.]],
        args = "(filename: string [, mode: string])",
        returns = "(file|nil [, string])",
        valuetype = "f", -- indicates that io.open returns value of type `f`
      },
    },
  },

  f = {
    type = "class",
    description = "Pseudoclass for operations on file handles.",
    childs = {
      close = {
        type = "method",
        description = "Closes file.",
        args = "(file: file)",
        returns = "(boolean|nil [, string, number])",
      },
    },
  },
}
{% endhighlight %}

This generates the following description for `io.open`: `(file|nil [, string]) io.open (filename: string [, mode: string])`.

When `io.open` is used in an expression, its return value gets the value of `valuetype` `f` (in this particular case), which allows auto-complete to suggest values, functions, and methods defined for that class:

{% highlight lua %}
local foo = io.open("myfile")
foo:
{% endhighlight %}

After typing `foo:`, the user will get `close` as an option. Since it is described as `method`, rather than `function`, it will not be suggested after typing `foo.`.
