doc-plugin.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Plugins
---

<ul id='toc'>&nbsp;</ul>

ZeroBrane Studio supports several ways to customize its functionality:
specification files (`spec/`) to describe syntax and keywords,
apis (`api/`) to provide code completion and tooltips, and
interpreters (`interpreters/`): to implement components for setting debugging and run-time project environment.

In addition to these options, it also provides **plugin API to extend its functionality** in a more fine graned way.
For example, one can write a plugin to add a menu item to turn line wrapping `on` or `off` from the IDE or a plugin to map a shortcut to a character not present on the keyboard.

## Plugin structure

A **plugin is a Lua file** that returns a table with several fields -- `name`, `description`, `author`, `version` -- and various [event handlers](#event-handler).

For example, the following plugin has only one event handler (`onRegister`) that is called when the plugin is registered:

```lua
return {
  name = "Sample plugin",
  description = "Sample plugin with one event handler.",
  author = "Paul Kulchenko",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self) DisplayOutputLn("Sample plugin registered") end,
}
```

The plugin may also return `nil` instead of the table, which will skip the registeration.
This is useful when some environmental conditions are not satisfied (for example, a program that the plugin integrates with is not installed).

## Plugin installation

A plugin can be placed in `ZBS/packages/` or `HOME/.zbstudio/packages` folder
(where `ZBS` is the path to ZeroBrane Studio location and `HOME` is the path specified by the `HOME` environment variable).
The first location allows you to have per-instance plugins, while the second allows to have per-user plugins.
The second option may also be preferable for Mac OS X users as the `packages/` folder may be overwritten during an application upgrade.

## Plugin configuration

Plugins may have its own configuration in the same way as the IDE does.
The configuration can be retrieved using `GetConfig` method, which returns a table with all configuration values.
For example, if one of the IDE [configuration files](doc-configuration) includes this assignment `pluginname = {value = 1, anothervalue = 2}`, then the assigned table will be returned as the result of the `GetConfig` method.

## Plugin data

Plugins may also have its own data, which provides a way to store information between IDE restarts.
This may be useful when a plugin stores some information entered by the user (like a registration key) or collects statistics about user actions.

The plugin API provides `GetSettings` and `SetSettings` methods that retrieve and save a table with all plugin data elements.
For example, the following fragment will increment and save `loaded` value to keep track of how many times the plugin has been loaded:

```lua
return {
  ...

  onRegister = function(self)
    local settings = self:GetSettings()
    settings.loaded = (settings.loaded or 0) + 1
    self:SetSettings(settings)
  end,
}
```

## Plugin guidelines

Plugin authors should only used public API, which includes the following groups of functions:

- [Event handlers](#event-handlers)
- [Methods for internal objects](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/src/editor/proto.lua), like Documents, Interpreter, Debugger, and others
- [Methods for the IDE object](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/src/editor/package.lua)
- [Editor API](#editor-api)
- [Menu API](#menu-api)

## Plugin dependencies

The plugins may depend on a particular version of ZeroBrane Studio.
One of the fields in the plugin description is `dependencies` that may have as its value
(1) a table with various dependencies or
(2) a minumum version number of ZeroBrane Studio required to run the plugin.

If the version number for ZeroBrane Studio is larger than the most recent released version
(for example, the current release version is 0.50, but the plugin has a dependency on 0.51),
this means that it requires a development version currently being worked on (which will become
the next release version).

One of the keys in the `dependencies` table may be `osname`, which specified what operating system
the plugin supports (`Windows`, `Macintosh`, and `Unix` are supported).
For example, specifying `dependencies = {0.71, osname = "Windows"}` sets `0.71` or later as
the required version of the IDE and `Windows` as the supported operating system.

## Event handlers

A plugin can register various [event handlers](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/packages/sample.lua).
Each handler receives the plugin object as the first parameter and some other parameters depending on the type of the event:
`onEditor*` events get `editor` object as the second parameter, `onMenu*` events get `menu` as the second parameter, `onApp*` events get `application` as the second parameter, `onProject*` get `project`, and `onInterpreter*` get `interpreter`.
Events may also get other parameters as documented in the file referenced above.

## Registering a specification

Registering a specification as part of a plugin allows you to provide custom syntax highlighting for files with a particular extension.
This is done using `AddSpec(name, specification)` and `RemoveSpec(name)` methods.
For example, the following code will register a specification that is linked to `.xml` extension:

```lua
local spec = {
  exts = {"xml"},
  lexer = wxstc.wxSTC_LEX_XML,
  apitype = "xml",
  stylingbits = 7,
  lexerstyleconvert = {
    text = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_DEFAULT,},
    comment = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_COMMENT,},
    stringeol = {wxstc.wxSTC_HJ_STRINGEOL,},
    number = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_NUMBER,},
    stringtxt = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_DOUBLESTRING,wxstc.wxSTC_H_SINGLESTRING,},
    lexerdef= {wxstc.wxSTC_H_OTHER,wxstc.wxSTC_H_ENTITY,wxstc.wxSTC_H_VALUE,},
    keywords0 = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_TAG,wxstc.wxSTC_H_ATTRIBUTE,},
  },
  keywords = {[[foo bar]]]},
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add specification with name "sample"
    ide:AddSpec("sample", spec)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove specification with name "sample"
    ide:RemoveSpec("sample")
  end,
}
```

The name of the specification is not critical, but to avoid conflicts with other plugins you may want to include the name of your plugin in your specification name (`sample` in the example above).
This registering of the specification will have the same effect as putting this specification code a file in `spec/` folder, but will only be used when the plugin is activated.

## Registering an API

[Custom API definitions](doc-api-auto-complete) that are used to provide function tooltips and auto-complete functionality can be added by registering an API definition.
This is done using `AddAPI(group, name, api)` and `RemoveAPI(group, name)` methods.
For example, to add `sample.val1` and `sample.val2` methods, you may use the following:

```lua
local api = {
 sample = {
  childs = {
   val1 = {
    description = "Value 1.",
    type = "value"
   },
   val2 = {
    description = "Value 2.",
    type = "value"
   },
  }
 }
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add API with name "sample" and group "lua"
    ide:AddAPI("lua", "sample", api)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove API with name "sample" from group "lua"
    ide:RemoveAPI("lua", "sample")
  end,
}
```

See the [custom API definitions](doc-api-auto-complete) section for details and examples on how to describe complex definitions
and the section on [registering API definitions](doc-api-auto-complete#how-to-reference-api-definitions) to **make added definitions recognized** by the IDE.

## Registering an interpreter

```lua
local interpreter = {
  name = "Sample",
  description = "Lua sample interpreter",
  api = {"baselib", "sample"},
  frun = function(self,wfilename,rundebug)
    CommandLineRun("lua "..wfilename,self:fworkdir(wfilename),true,false)
  end,
  hasdebugger = true,
  fattachdebug = function(self) DebuggerAttachDefault() end,
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add interpreter with name "sample"
    ide:AddInterpreter("sample", interpreter)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove interpreter with name "sample"
    ide:RemoveInterpreter("sample")
  end,
}
```

## Registering a console alias

A console alias allows adding commands to the local console in the IDE.
This is done using `AddConsoleAlias(name, commands)` and `RemoveConsoleAlias(name)` methods.
For example, to add `install` and `uninstall` commands to the console, you may do the following:

```lua
local commands = {
  install = function(m) DisplayOutputLn("Installed "..m) end,
  uninstall = function(m) DisplayOutputLn("Uninstalled "..m) end,
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add console alias with name "sample"
    ide:AddConsoleAlias("sample", commands)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove console alias with name "sample"
    ide:RemoveConsoleAlias("sample")
  end,
}
```

When this plugin is activated, the user can then run `sample.install()` and `sample.uninstall()` commands in the local console.

## Editor API

The editor object available through the plugin API is a wrapper around [wxStyledTextCtrl](http://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_styled_text_ctrl.html) object and supports all its methods.
For example, `editor:GetLineCount()` will return the number of lines in the document.
Note that all the numbers accepted by wxStyledTextCtrl API are zero-based, so to get the content of the first line in the documents, you should use `editor:GetLine(0)` instead of `editor:GetLine(1)`.

[Scintilla documentation](http://scintilla.org/ScintillaDoc.html) may provide additional details where wxStyledTextCtrl documentation fails short.
The names referenced by the Scintilla documentation are slightly different, but they should be easily guessable;
for example, `SCI_GETTEXT` maps to `editor:GetText()`); although there are few exceptions: `SCI_ASSIGNCMDKEY` is mapped to `CmdKeyAssign`.

## Menu API

The menu object is a wrapper around [wxMenu](http://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_menu.html) object and supports all its methods.
For example, `menu:AppendSeparator()` will add a separator at the end of the current menu and `menu:Append(id, "Popup Menu Item")` will append a new item with id `id` to the menu.

## Example: Basic plugin with all event handlers

[A sample plugin](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/packages/sample.lua)
is included with your IDE installation.
It lists all existing event handlers and shows how to register various menu handlers.
If you uncomment its code, it will show a message in the Output window for every event.

## Example: Adding an event handler for typed characters

```lua
local pairs = {
  ['('] = ')', ['['] = ']', ['{'] = '}', ['"'] = '"', ["'"] = "'"}
local closing = [[)}]'"]]
return {
  name = "Auto-insertion of delimiters",
  description = [[Adds auto-insertion of delimiters (), {}, [], '', and "".]],
  author = "Paul Kulchenko",
  version = 0.1,

  onEditorCharAdded = function(self, editor, event)
    local keycode = event:GetKey()
    local char = string.char(keycode)
    local curpos = editor:GetCurrentPos()

    if closing:find(char, 1, true) and editor:GetCharAt(curpos) == keycode then
      -- if the entered text matches the closing one
      -- and the current symbol is the same, then "eat" the character
      editor:DeleteRange(curpos, 1)
    elseif pairs[char] then
      -- if the entered matches opening delimiter, then insert the pair
      editor:InsertText(-1, pairs[char])
    end
  end,
}
```

## Example: Modifying main and popup menus

```lua
local G = ...
local id = G.ID("popupmenu.popupshow")
local iditem = G.ID("popupmenu.popupitem")
return {
  name = "Sample plugin with popup menu",
  description = "Sample plugin showing how to setup and use popup menu.",
  author = "Paul Kulchenko",
  version = 0.2,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add menu item that will activate popup menu
    local menu = ide:GetMenuBar():GetMenu(ide:GetMenuBar():FindMenu(TR("&Edit")))
    menu:Append(id, "Show Popup\tCtrl-Alt-T")
    ide:GetMainFrame():Connect(id, wx.wxEVT_COMMAND_MENU_SELECTED, function()
      GetEditor():AddPendingEvent(wx.wxContextMenuEvent(wx.wxEVT_CONTEXT_MENU))
    end)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove added menu item when plugin is unregistered
    ide:RemoveMenuItem(id)
  end,

  onMenuEditor = function(self, menu, editor, event)
    -- add a separator and a sample menu item to the popup menu
    menu:AppendSeparator()
    menu:Append(iditem, "Popup Menu Item")

    -- attach a function to the added menu item
    editor:Connect(iditem, wx.wxEVT_COMMAND_MENU_SELECTED,
      function(event) DisplayOutputLn("Selected popup item") end)
  end
}
```

## Example: Adding a menu item and a toolbar button that run `make`

[This plugin](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/maketoolbar.lua) demonstrates how to **add a menu item**, **add a toolbar button**
linked to that menu item, **register an icon** (in xpm format) for that
toolbar button, and **run an external command**.

The plugin **requires ZeroBrane Studio v0.71+** as it uses an API
not available in earlier versions.

If you need to include a **path to the filename in the current editor tab**,
something like the following may work:

```lua
ide:GetMainFrame():Connect(id, wx.wxEVT_COMMAND_MENU_SELECTED,
  function ()
    local ed = ide:GetEditor()
    if not ed then return end -- all editor tabs are closed

    local file = ide:GetDocument(ed):GetFilePath()
    if file then -- a new (untitled) file may not have path
      ide:ExecuteCommand('make', ide:GetProject(), function(s) DisplayOutput(s) end)
    end
  end)
```

Commit message:

Updated plugin documentation with information about plugin repository.

doc-plugin.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Plugins
---

<ul id='toc'>&nbsp;</ul>

ZeroBrane Studio supports several ways to customize its functionality:
specification files (`spec/`) to describe syntax and keywords,
apis (`api/`) to provide code completion and tooltips, and
interpreters (`interpreters/`): to implement components for setting debugging and run-time project environment.

In addition to these options, it also provides **plugin API to extend its functionality** in a more fine graned way.
For example, one can write a plugin to add a menu item to turn line wrapping `on` or `off` from the IDE or a plugin to map a shortcut to a character not present on the keyboard.

## Plugin repository

There are **50+ extension packages** in the [package repository](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage),
including packages like
[DocumentMap](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/documentmap.lua),
[UniqueTabName](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/uniquetabname.lua),
[CloneView](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/cloneview.lua),
[ProjectSettings](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/projectsettings.lua),
[SyntaxCheckOnType](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/syntaxcheckontype.lua),
and many others.

## Plugin structure

A **plugin is a Lua file** that returns a table with several fields -- `name`, `description`, `author`, `version` -- and various [event handlers](#event-handler).

For example, the following plugin has only one event handler (`onRegister`) that is called when the plugin is registered:

```lua
return {
  name = "Sample plugin",
  description = "Sample plugin with one event handler.",
  author = "Paul Kulchenko",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self) DisplayOutputLn("Sample plugin registered") end,
}
```

The plugin may also return `nil` instead of the table, which will skip the registeration.
This is useful when some environmental conditions are not satisfied (for example, a program that the plugin integrates with is not installed).

## Plugin installation

A plugin can be placed in `ZBS/packages/` or `HOME/.zbstudio/packages` folder
(where `ZBS` is the path to ZeroBrane Studio location and `HOME` is the path specified by the `HOME` environment variable).
The first location allows you to have per-instance plugins, while the second allows to have per-user plugins.
The second option may also be preferable for Mac OS X users as the `packages/` folder may be overwritten during an application upgrade.

## Plugin configuration

Plugins may have its own configuration in the same way as the IDE does.
The configuration can be retrieved using `GetConfig` method, which returns a table with all configuration values.
For example, if one of the IDE [configuration files](doc-configuration) includes this assignment `pluginname = {value = 1, anothervalue = 2}`, then the assigned table will be returned as the result of the `GetConfig` method.

## Plugin data

Plugins may also have its own data, which provides a way to store information between IDE restarts.
This may be useful when a plugin stores some information entered by the user (like a registration key) or collects statistics about user actions.

The plugin API provides `GetSettings` and `SetSettings` methods that retrieve and save a table with all plugin data elements.
For example, the following fragment will increment and save `loaded` value to keep track of how many times the plugin has been loaded:

```lua
return {
  ...

  onRegister = function(self)
    local settings = self:GetSettings()
    settings.loaded = (settings.loaded or 0) + 1
    self:SetSettings(settings)
  end,
}
```

## Plugin guidelines

Plugin authors should only used public API, which includes the following groups of functions:

- [Event handlers](#event-handlers)
- [Methods for internal objects](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/src/editor/proto.lua), like Documents, Interpreter, Debugger, and others
- [Methods for the IDE object](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/src/editor/package.lua)
- [Editor API](#editor-api)
- [Menu API](#menu-api)

## Plugin dependencies

The plugins may depend on a particular version of ZeroBrane Studio.
One of the fields in the plugin description is `dependencies` that may have as its value
(1) a table with various dependencies or
(2) a minumum version number of ZeroBrane Studio required to run the plugin.

If the version number for ZeroBrane Studio is larger than the most recent released version
(for example, the current release version is 0.50, but the plugin has a dependency on 0.51),
this means that it requires a development version currently being worked on (which will become
the next release version).

One of the keys in the `dependencies` table may be `osname`, which specified what operating system
the plugin supports (`Windows`, `Macintosh`, and `Unix` are supported).
For example, specifying `dependencies = {0.71, osname = "Windows"}` sets `0.71` or later as
the required version of the IDE and `Windows` as the supported operating system.

## Event handlers

A plugin can register various [event handlers](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/packages/sample.lua).
Each handler receives the plugin object as the first parameter and some other parameters depending on the type of the event:
`onEditor*` events get `editor` object as the second parameter, `onMenu*` events get `menu` as the second parameter, `onApp*` events get `application` as the second parameter, `onProject*` get `project`, and `onInterpreter*` get `interpreter`.
Events may also get other parameters as documented in the file referenced above.

## Registering a specification

Registering a specification as part of a plugin allows you to provide custom syntax highlighting for files with a particular extension.
This is done using `AddSpec(name, specification)` and `RemoveSpec(name)` methods.
For example, the following code will register a specification that is linked to `.xml` extension:

```lua
local spec = {
  exts = {"xml"},
  lexer = wxstc.wxSTC_LEX_XML,
  apitype = "xml",
  stylingbits = 7,
  lexerstyleconvert = {
    text = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_DEFAULT,},
    comment = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_COMMENT,},
    stringeol = {wxstc.wxSTC_HJ_STRINGEOL,},
    number = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_NUMBER,},
    stringtxt = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_DOUBLESTRING,wxstc.wxSTC_H_SINGLESTRING,},
    lexerdef= {wxstc.wxSTC_H_OTHER,wxstc.wxSTC_H_ENTITY,wxstc.wxSTC_H_VALUE,},
    keywords0 = {wxstc.wxSTC_H_TAG,wxstc.wxSTC_H_ATTRIBUTE,},
  },
  keywords = {[[foo bar]]]},
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add specification with name "sample"
    ide:AddSpec("sample", spec)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove specification with name "sample"
    ide:RemoveSpec("sample")
  end,
}
```

The name of the specification is not critical, but to avoid conflicts with other plugins you may want to include the name of your plugin in your specification name (`sample` in the example above).
This registering of the specification will have the same effect as putting this specification code a file in `spec/` folder, but will only be used when the plugin is activated.

## Registering an API

[Custom API definitions](doc-api-auto-complete) that are used to provide function tooltips and auto-complete functionality can be added by registering an API definition.
This is done using `AddAPI(group, name, api)` and `RemoveAPI(group, name)` methods.
For example, to add `sample.val1` and `sample.val2` methods, you may use the following:

```lua
local api = {
 sample = {
  childs = {
   val1 = {
    description = "Value 1.",
    type = "value"
   },
   val2 = {
    description = "Value 2.",
    type = "value"
   },
  }
 }
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add API with name "sample" and group "lua"
    ide:AddAPI("lua", "sample", api)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove API with name "sample" from group "lua"
    ide:RemoveAPI("lua", "sample")
  end,
}
```

See the [custom API definitions](doc-api-auto-complete) section for details and examples on how to describe complex definitions
and the section on [registering API definitions](doc-api-auto-complete#how-to-reference-api-definitions) to **make added definitions recognized** by the IDE.

## Registering an interpreter

```lua
local interpreter = {
  name = "Sample",
  description = "Lua sample interpreter",
  api = {"baselib", "sample"},
  frun = function(self,wfilename,rundebug)
    CommandLineRun("lua "..wfilename,self:fworkdir(wfilename),true,false)
  end,
  hasdebugger = true,
  fattachdebug = function(self) DebuggerAttachDefault() end,
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add interpreter with name "sample"
    ide:AddInterpreter("sample", interpreter)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove interpreter with name "sample"
    ide:RemoveInterpreter("sample")
  end,
}
```

## Registering a console alias

A console alias allows adding commands to the local console in the IDE.
This is done using `AddConsoleAlias(name, commands)` and `RemoveConsoleAlias(name)` methods.
For example, to add `install` and `uninstall` commands to the console, you may do the following:

```lua
local commands = {
  install = function(m) DisplayOutputLn("Installed "..m) end,
  uninstall = function(m) DisplayOutputLn("Uninstalled "..m) end,
}

return {
  name = "...",
  description = "...",
  author = "...",
  version = 0.1,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add console alias with name "sample"
    ide:AddConsoleAlias("sample", commands)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove console alias with name "sample"
    ide:RemoveConsoleAlias("sample")
  end,
}
```

When this plugin is activated, the user can then run `sample.install()` and `sample.uninstall()` commands in the local console.

## Editor API

The editor object available through the plugin API is a wrapper around [wxStyledTextCtrl](http://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_styled_text_ctrl.html) object and supports all its methods.
For example, `editor:GetLineCount()` will return the number of lines in the document.
Note that all the numbers accepted by wxStyledTextCtrl API are zero-based, so to get the content of the first line in the documents, you should use `editor:GetLine(0)` instead of `editor:GetLine(1)`.

[Scintilla documentation](http://scintilla.org/ScintillaDoc.html) may provide additional details where wxStyledTextCtrl documentation fails short.
The names referenced by the Scintilla documentation are slightly different, but they should be easily guessable;
for example, `SCI_GETTEXT` maps to `editor:GetText()`); although there are few exceptions: `SCI_ASSIGNCMDKEY` is mapped to `CmdKeyAssign`.

## Menu API

The menu object is a wrapper around [wxMenu](http://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/classwx_menu.html) object and supports all its methods.
For example, `menu:AppendSeparator()` will add a separator at the end of the current menu and `menu:Append(id, "Popup Menu Item")` will append a new item with id `id` to the menu.

## Example: Basic plugin with all event handlers

[A sample plugin](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/blob/master/packages/sample.lua)
is included with your IDE installation.
It lists all existing event handlers and shows how to register various menu handlers.
If you uncomment its code, it will show a message in the Output window for every event.

## Example: Adding an event handler for typed characters

```lua
local pairs = {
  ['('] = ')', ['['] = ']', ['{'] = '}', ['"'] = '"', ["'"] = "'"}
local closing = [[)}]'"]]
return {
  name = "Auto-insertion of delimiters",
  description = [[Adds auto-insertion of delimiters (), {}, [], '', and "".]],
  author = "Paul Kulchenko",
  version = 0.1,

  onEditorCharAdded = function(self, editor, event)
    local keycode = event:GetKey()
    local char = string.char(keycode)
    local curpos = editor:GetCurrentPos()

    if closing:find(char, 1, true) and editor:GetCharAt(curpos) == keycode then
      -- if the entered text matches the closing one
      -- and the current symbol is the same, then "eat" the character
      editor:DeleteRange(curpos, 1)
    elseif pairs[char] then
      -- if the entered matches opening delimiter, then insert the pair
      editor:InsertText(-1, pairs[char])
    end
  end,
}
```

## Example: Modifying main and popup menus

```lua
local G = ...
local id = G.ID("popupmenu.popupshow")
local iditem = G.ID("popupmenu.popupitem")
return {
  name = "Sample plugin with popup menu",
  description = "Sample plugin showing how to setup and use popup menu.",
  author = "Paul Kulchenko",
  version = 0.2,

  onRegister = function(self)
    -- add menu item that will activate popup menu
    local menu = ide:GetMenuBar():GetMenu(ide:GetMenuBar():FindMenu(TR("&Edit")))
    menu:Append(id, "Show Popup\tCtrl-Alt-T")
    ide:GetMainFrame():Connect(id, wx.wxEVT_COMMAND_MENU_SELECTED, function()
      GetEditor():AddPendingEvent(wx.wxContextMenuEvent(wx.wxEVT_CONTEXT_MENU))
    end)
  end,

  onUnRegister = function(self)
    -- remove added menu item when plugin is unregistered
    ide:RemoveMenuItem(id)
  end,

  onMenuEditor = function(self, menu, editor, event)
    -- add a separator and a sample menu item to the popup menu
    menu:AppendSeparator()
    menu:Append(iditem, "Popup Menu Item")

    -- attach a function to the added menu item
    editor:Connect(iditem, wx.wxEVT_COMMAND_MENU_SELECTED,
      function(event) DisplayOutputLn("Selected popup item") end)
  end
}
```

## Example: Adding a menu item and a toolbar button that run `make`

[This plugin](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBranePackage/blob/master/maketoolbar.lua) demonstrates how to **add a menu item**, **add a toolbar button**
linked to that menu item, **register an icon** (in xpm format) for that
toolbar button, and **run an external command**.

The plugin **requires ZeroBrane Studio v0.71+** as it uses an API
not available in earlier versions.

If you need to include a **path to the filename in the current editor tab**,
something like the following may work:

```lua
ide:GetMainFrame():Connect(id, wx.wxEVT_COMMAND_MENU_SELECTED,
  function ()
    local ed = ide:GetEditor()
    if not ed then return end -- all editor tabs are closed

    local file = ide:GetDocument(ed):GetFilePath()
    if file then -- a new (untitled) file may not have path
      ide:ExecuteCommand('make', ide:GetProject(), function(s) DisplayOutput(s) end)
    end
  end)
```
