index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

ZeroBrane Studio is a **lightweight Lua IDE** with code completion, syntax
highlighting, code analyzer, live coding, and debugging support
for Lua 5.1, [Lua 5.2](doc-lua52-debugging.html),
[LuaJIT](doc-luajit-debugging.html), and [other Lua engines](documentation.html#debugging).

It is **simple and instantly usable** for beginners (as tested with middle and
high school students with no programming experience), yet
**[feature-rich](features.html) and extensible** for experienced developers.
Unlike Eclipse and IntelliJ, it has a **small footprint** and is **completely
customizable with Lua**. Unlike TextMate and Sublime Text, it includes a
**remote debugger** and a **full IDE feature set**.

ZeroBrane Studio also provides several unique features: **live coding** for
immediate feedback, **Markdown formatting** in comments for providing
instructions with minimal context switching, and **integrated interactive
materials** for those learning Lua or getting familiar with programming.

For those interested in **game and mobile development**, it supports debugging
for Löve 2D ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/love2d-debugging)),
Moai ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/moai-debugging-with-zerobrane-studio)),
Gideros ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/gideros-debugging-with-zerobrane-studio-ide)),
Marmalade Quick ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/marmalade-quick-debugging-with-zerobrane-studio)),
and Corona ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/debugging-and-live-coding-with-corona-sdk-applications-and-zerobrane-studio)).

## Feature highlights

* Small, portable, [open-source](http://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/), and **cross-platform** ([Windows](images/debugging.png), [Mac OSX](images/autocomplete-osx.png), and [Linux](images/scratchpad-linux-mint.png));
* **Auto-completion** for functions, keywords, and custom APIs;
* **Interactive console** to test code snippets with local and remote execution;
* [Live coding](documentation.html#live_coding) with Lua ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/live-coding-in-lua-bret-victor-style)), Löve 2D ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/live-coding-with-love)), Gideros ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/gideros-live-coding-with-zerobrane-studio-ide)), Moai ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/live-coding-with-moai-and-zerobrane-studio)), and Corona ([demo](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/debugging-and-live-coding-with-corona-sdk-applications-and-zerobrane-studio));
* **Integrated debugger** (with support for local and remote debugging), and **[more](features.html)**.

Commit message:

Added Decoda comparison and cocos2d-x debugging to the main page.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

ZeroBrane Studio is a **lightweight Lua IDE** with code completion, syntax
highlighting, code analyzer, live coding, and debugging support
for Lua 5.1, [Lua 5.2](doc-lua52-debugging.html),
[LuaJIT](doc-luajit-debugging.html), and [other Lua engines](documentation.html#debugging).

It is **simple and instantly usable** for beginners (as tested with middle and
high school students with no programming experience), yet
**[feature-rich](features.html) and extensible** for experienced developers.
Unlike Eclipse and IntelliJ, it has a **small footprint** and is **completely
customizable with Lua**. Unlike TextMate and Sublime Text, it includes a
**remote debugger** and a **full IDE feature set**.
Unlike Decoda, it runs on Windows, Mac OSX, and Linux and supports **on-device debugging**.

ZeroBrane Studio also provides several unique features: **live coding** for
immediate feedback, **Markdown formatting** in comments for providing
instructions with minimal context switching, and **integrated interactive
materials** for those learning Lua or getting familiar with programming.

For those interested in **game and mobile development**, it supports debugging
for [Löve 2D](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/love2d-debugging),
[Moai](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/moai-debugging-with-zerobrane-studio),
[Gideros](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/gideros-debugging-with-zerobrane-studio-ide),
[Marmalade Quick](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/marmalade-quick-debugging-with-zerobrane-studio),
[Corona](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/debugging-and-live-coding-with-corona-sdk-applications-and-zerobrane-studio),
and [Cocos2d-x](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/cocos2d-x-simulator-and-on-device-debugging-with-zerobrane-studio).

## Feature highlights

* Small, portable, [open-source](http://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/), and **cross-platform** ([Windows](images/debugging.png), [Mac OSX](images/autocomplete-osx.png), and [Linux](images/scratchpad-linux-mint.png));
* **Auto-completion** for functions, keywords, and custom APIs;
* **Interactive console** to test code snippets with local and remote execution;
* [Live coding](documentation.html#live_coding) with [Lua](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/live-coding-in-lua-bret-victor-style),
[Löve 2D](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/live-coding-with-love),
[Gideros](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/gideros-live-coding-with-zerobrane-studio-ide),
[Moai](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/live-coding-with-moai-and-zerobrane-studio),
and [Corona](http://notebook.kulchenko.com/zerobrane/debugging-and-live-coding-with-corona-sdk-applications-and-zerobrane-studio);
* **Integrated debugger** (with support for local and remote debugging), and **[more](features.html)**.
