support.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Support
---

# Support ZeroBrane Studio. Pay what you want. Download and run in 30 seconds.

<div><img style="float: right; padding: 10px 40px 10px 0px" src="images/lua-ide-benefits-screenshot.png" /></div>
<form action="#" id="PayForm" name="PayForm">
 <table class="payment" id="payment-options">
  <tr><td class="amount">  $5</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount5" value="5" type="radio" /><label for="amount5">This is better than chocolate Mocha</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount"> $10</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount10" value="10" type="radio" /><label for="amount10">I will pay more when my game sells</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount"> $24</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount24" checked="checked" value="24" type="radio" /><label for="amount24"><strong>Exactly what I was looking for</strong></label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount"> $50</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount50" value="50" type="radio" /><label for="amount50">I feel lucky and generous today</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount">$100</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount100" value="100" type="radio" /><label for="amount100">Take my money; just keep working on it</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount">$<input disabled="disabled" type="text" value="other" id="amountValue" /></td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amountOther" value="" type="radio" /><label for="amountOther">I have something else on my mind</label></td></tr>
 </table>
 <div id="next-step">
  <span class="gh-btn"><a class="button" id="pay-with-card-button" href="#">Pay with Card</a></span>
  <a href="download.html?not-this-time" id="no-payment-text">Take me to the download page this time &#187;</a>
 </div>
</form>
<div class="separator">&nbsp;</div>

## What do I get?
You get packages for three platforms:
**Windows** XP or later (zip or self-extracting archive), **Mac OS X** 10.6.8+ (dmg file), or **Linux** (shell archive for Debian, Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Mint, ArchLinux, Fedora, Gentoo and other distributions).

## How much do I pay?
This is completely up to you. How much do you value being able to find
an issue with your code in 5 minutes instead of 15? Get your mobile 
application out faster? Have fun helping your kids or friends learn
programming using Lua and examples included with the IDE?

## Isn't this an open source project?
Yes and we make it easy for you to get code from GitHub and
run it from a cloned copy or an archive. We would still **appreciate your 
payment in support of this project.** If you decide not to provide financial
support this time, please consider spreading the word, contributing code,
helping with [fixes](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/issues)
or [documentation](documentation.html),
and answering questions other users may have.

Commit message:

Added clarification on no tax-deductible status for payments.

support.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Support
---

# Support ZeroBrane Studio. Pay what you want. Download and run in 30 seconds.

<div><img style="float: right; padding: 10px 40px 10px 0px" src="images/lua-ide-benefits-screenshot.png" /></div>
<form action="#" id="PayForm" name="PayForm">
 <table class="payment" id="payment-options">
  <tr><td class="amount">  $5</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount5" value="5" type="radio" /><label for="amount5">This is better than chocolate Mocha</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount"> $10</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount10" value="10" type="radio" /><label for="amount10">I will pay more when my game sells</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount"> $24</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount24" checked="checked" value="24" type="radio" /><label for="amount24"><strong>Exactly what I was looking for</strong></label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount"> $50</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount50" value="50" type="radio" /><label for="amount50">I feel lucky and generous today</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount">$100</td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amount100" value="100" type="radio" /><label for="amount100">Take my money; just keep working on it</label></td></tr>
  <tr><td class="amount">$<input disabled="disabled" type="text" value="other" id="amountValue" /></td><td class="description"><input name="payment" id="amountOther" value="" type="radio" /><label for="amountOther">I have something else on my mind</label></td></tr>
 </table>
 <div id="next-step">
  <span class="gh-btn"><a class="button" id="pay-with-card-button" href="#">Pay with Card</a></span>
  <a href="download.html?not-this-time" id="no-payment-text">Take me to the download page this time &#187;</a>
 </div>
</form>
<div class="separator">&nbsp;</div>

## What do I get?
You get packages for three platforms:
**Windows** XP or later (zip or self-extracting archive), **Mac OS X** 10.6.8+ (dmg file), or **Linux** (shell archive for Debian, Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Mint, ArchLinux, Fedora, Gentoo and other distributions).

## How much do I pay?
This is completely up to you. How much do you value being able to find
an issue with your code in 5 minutes instead of 15? Get your mobile 
application out faster? Have fun helping your kids or friends learn
programming using Lua and examples included with the IDE?

ZeroBrane LLC is not a tax-exempt non-profit organization, so your payment is **not tax deductible**.

## Isn't this an open source project?
Yes and we make it easy for you to get the code from GitHub and
run it from a cloned copy or an archive. We would still **appreciate your
payment in support of this project.** If you decide not to provide financial
support this time, please consider spreading the word, contributing code,
helping with [fixes](https://github.com/pkulchenko/ZeroBraneStudio/issues)
or [documentation](documentation.html),
and answering questions other users may have.
