vera-documentation.md, before:

---
layout: vera
title: Documentation
---

## Getting started

- A **[short and simple overview](vera-getting-started.html)** for those who are new to this development environment.
- **[Tutorials](vera-tutorials.html)** that cover general Vera debugging and related features.
- A list of **[frequently asked questions](vera-faq.html)**.

## Development and Debugging

- [Debugging Overview](vera-debugging.html)
- [Remote Debugging](vera-remote-debugging.html)
  * Startup code debugging
  * Test luup code debugging
  * [Scene code debugging](vera-scene-debugging.html)
  * [Plugin code debugging](vera-plugin-debugging.html) (`startup`, `run`, `job`)
  * Timed (call_delay and call_timer) callback debugging
  * [Request (`register_handler`) callback debugging](vera-request-debugging.html)
  * [Watch (`variable_watch`) callback debugging](vera-watch-debugging.html)

## Customization and Preferences

- [General preferences](doc-general-preferences.html)
- [Editor preferences](doc-editor-preferences.html)
- [Editor keyboard shortcuts](doc-editor-keyboard-shortcuts.html)
- [Styles and color schemes](doc-styles-color-schemes.html)
- [Configuration](doc-configuration.html)

## Vera resources

- [Vera user forums](http://forum.micasaverde.com/)
- [Check for latest firmware](http://cp.mios.com/firmware)
- [Vera Documentation](http://docs5.mios.com/)
- [Vera FAQ Categories](http://faq.mios.com/showcat.html)
- [Vera Marketplace](http://apps.mios.com/)

## Luup (Lua-UPnP) programming resources

- [Luup introduction](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Intro)
- [Luup Lua extensions](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Lua_extensions)
- [Luup scene events](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Scenes_Events)
- [Luup plugins](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Plugins)
- [Plugin creation tutorial](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Plugin_Creation_Tutorial)
- [Luup plugins by hand](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Plugins_ByHand) and [plugin walkthrough](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Somfy_Walkthrough)
- [Luup constants](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_UPNP_Files)
- [Luup UPnP Variables and Actions](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_UPnP_Variables_and_Actions)
- [Luup requests (using HTTP)](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Requests)
- [Luup debugging](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Debugging)
- [Luup UI overview](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/UI_Simple) and [Vera User Interface notes](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/UI_Notes)

Commit message:

Added Lua quick start guide.

vera-documentation.md, after:

---
layout: vera
title: Documentation
---

## Getting started

- A **[short and simple overview](vera-getting-started.html)** for those who are new to this development environment.
- **[Tutorials](vera-tutorials.html)** that cover general Vera debugging and related features.
- A list of **[frequently asked questions](vera-faq.html)**.
- **[Lua quick start guide](doc-lua-quick-start-guide.html)** that covers basics of Lua.

## Development and Debugging

- [Debugging Overview](vera-debugging.html)
- [Remote Debugging](vera-remote-debugging.html)
  * Startup code debugging
  * Test luup code debugging
  * [Scene code debugging](vera-scene-debugging.html)
  * [Plugin code debugging](vera-plugin-debugging.html) (`startup`, `run`, `job`)
  * Timed (call_delay and call_timer) callback debugging
  * [Request (`register_handler`) callback debugging](vera-request-debugging.html)
  * [Watch (`variable_watch`) callback debugging](vera-watch-debugging.html)

## Customization and Preferences

- [General preferences](doc-general-preferences.html)
- [Editor preferences](doc-editor-preferences.html)
- [Editor keyboard shortcuts](doc-editor-keyboard-shortcuts.html)
- [Styles and color schemes](doc-styles-color-schemes.html)
- [Configuration](doc-configuration.html)

## Vera resources

- [Vera user forums](http://forum.micasaverde.com/)
- [Check for latest firmware](http://cp.mios.com/firmware)
- [Vera Documentation](http://docs5.mios.com/)
- [Vera FAQ Categories](http://faq.mios.com/showcat.html)
- [Vera Marketplace](http://apps.mios.com/)

## Luup (Lua-UPnP) programming resources

- [Luup introduction](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Intro)
- [Luup Lua extensions](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Lua_extensions)
- [Luup scene events](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Scenes_Events)
- [Luup plugins](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Plugins)
- [Plugin creation tutorial](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Plugin_Creation_Tutorial)
- [Luup plugins by hand](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Plugins_ByHand) and [plugin walkthrough](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Somfy_Walkthrough)
- [Luup constants](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_UPNP_Files)
- [Luup UPnP Variables and Actions](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_UPnP_Variables_and_Actions)
- [Luup requests (using HTTP)](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Requests)
- [Luup debugging](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/Luup_Debugging)
- [Luup UI overview](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/UI_Simple) and [Vera User Interface notes](http://wiki.micasaverde.com/index.php/UI_Notes)
